Java clients v2 (#1289)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/clients/pages/java.adoc

= Java Client

> :page-api-reference: https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/{page-latest-supported-java-client}/javadoc

Reviewer: Should we also have the link to java client javadoc at here as well.

`* https://docs.hazelcast.org/hazelcast-java-client/{page-latest-supported-java-client-new}/javadoc[Hazelcast {java-client-new} API documentation]`

Author: This is a page variable that triggers the dropdown below the main heading, the page H1 - AFAIK we can't have two links here. i.e. this is a limitation of the existing one page structure. We can have references within the content though (see links further down), which I think is ok for Beta.

= Java Client
:page-api-reference: https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/{page-latest-supported-java-client}/javadoc
:page-toclevels: 1
:description: Hazelcast provides a {java-client} within the standard distribution you can start using right away, and also a lightweight {java-client-new} that is available in Beta.
[[java-client]]

// check redirects

== Overview

// client options

> Hazelcast provides a native {java-client} which you can use to connect to a Hazelcast cluster. `hazelcast.jar` is bundled in the Hazelcast standard package, so just add `hazelcast.jar` to your classpath and you can start using this client as if you are using the Hazelcast API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hazelcast provides a native {java-client} which you can use to connect to a Hazelcast cluster. `hazelcast-<VERSION>.jar` is bundled in the Hazelcast standard package, so just add `hazelcast-<VERSION>.jar` to your classpath and you can start using this client as if you are using the Hazelcast API.
```

Author: Thanks, added

> Hazelcast provides a native {java-client} which you can use to connect to a Hazelcast cluster. `hazelcast.jar` is bundled in the Hazelcast standard package, so just add `hazelcast.jar` to your classpath and you can start using this client as if you are using the Hazelcast API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hazelcast provides a platform {java-client} which you can use to connect to a Hazelcast cluster. `hazelcast.jar` is bundled in the Hazelcast standard package, so just add `hazelcast.jar` to your classpath and you can start using this client as if you are using the Hazelcast API.
```
I am not sure if native is the terminology we want to use for existing client. We called it as Platform client. We also have native(HD) memory feature which may cause native client to be misunderstood.

Author: Thanks, removed (I thought it might be controversial / inappropriate and it's fine without it)

// check production recommendation

// API options
Both native ({java-client}) and standalone ({java-client-new}) clients enable you to use the Hazelcast API, with this page explaining any differences or technical details that affect usage. This page should be read alongside the respective Javadoc-generated API documentation available from within your IDE and the following links:

* https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/{page-latest-supported-java-client}/javadoc[Hazelcast {java-client} API documentation]
* https://docs.hazelcast.org/hazelcast-java-client/{page-latest-supported-java-client-new}/javadoc[Hazelcast {java-client-new} API documentation]

// tutorials and related content

== Get started

* xref:java#get-started-with-java-client-and-embedded-server[]
* xref:java#get-started-with-java-client-standalone-beta[]

=== Get started with {java-client}

To get started using the {java-client}, you need to include the `hazelcast.jar` dependency in your classpath. You can then start using this client as if
you are using the Hazelcast API. 

> NOTE: If you have a Hazelcast {enterprise-product-name} license, you don't need to set the license key in your Hazelcast Java clients to use the xref:getting-started:editions.adoc#features-in-hazelcast-enterprise[{enterprise-product-name} features]. You only have to set it on the member side, and include the `hazelcast-enterprise.jar` dependency in your classpath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you have a Hazelcast {enterprise-product-name} license, you don't need to set the license key in your Hazelcast Java clients to use the xref:getting-started:editions.adoc#features-in-hazelcast-enterprise[{enterprise-product-name} features]. You only have to set it on the member side, and include the `hazelcast-enterprise-<VERSION>.jar` dependency in your classpath.
```

</dependency>
----

--
====

You can find {java-client} code samples in the https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/clients[Hazelcast Code Samples repository].

TIP: For a tutorial on getting started with Java in an embedded topology, see xref:getting-started:get-started-java.adoc[].

=== Get started with {java-client-new} (BETA)

To get started using the {java-client-new}, you need to include the `hazelcast-java-client-{page-latest-supported-java-client-new}.jar` dependency in your classpath. You can then start using this client as if

> you are using the Hazelcast API. 

Author: @ihsandemir you want to change this line?

Reviewer: done

</dependency>
----

--
====

You can find {java-client} code samples in the https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/clients[Hazelcast Code Samples repository].

TIP: For a tutorial on getting started with Java in an embedded topology, see xref:getting-started:get-started-java.adoc[].

=== Get started with {java-client-new} (BETA)

> To get started using the {java-client-new}, you need to iadd `hazelcast-java-client` artifact dependency in your pom.xml as shown below. You can then start using this client as if

Author: ```suggestion
To get started using the {java-client-new}, you need to add the `hazelcast-java-client` dependency to your pom.xml, as shown below. You can then start using this client as if
```

you are using the Hazelcast API.
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.hazelcast</groupId>
    <artifactId>hazelcast-java-client</artifactId>
    <version>{java-client-standalone-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

> If you are using `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client`, you need to add `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client` artifact dependency at your pom.xml file together with the private hazelcast repository as shown below:

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client`, you need to add the `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client` dependency and private hazelcast repository to your pom.xml file, as shown below:
```

</dependency>
----

--
====

You can find {java-client} code samples in the https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/clients[Hazelcast Code Samples repository].

TIP: For a tutorial on getting started with Java in an embedded topology, see xref:getting-started:get-started-java.adoc[].

=== Get started with {java-client-new} (BETA)

> To get started using the {java-client-new}, you need to include the `hazelcast-java-client-{full-version}.jar` dependency in your classpath. You can then start using this client as if

Reviewer: full-version should be 5.5.0-BETA

Author: Sounds like we need another variable to track the standalone-full-version if it will diverge from embedded client...updated antora.yml which contains the variables

you are using the Hazelcast API. 

If you prefer to use Maven, add the `hazelcast-java-client` dependency to your `pom.xml`:

> // check conversation about `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client` dependency and note i.e. is it as below?

Reviewer 2: yes, the only difference can be the necessity of adding the jfrog private repository to pom.xml if EE client is used.

Author: Not sure if this is documented - can you use **Add a suggestion** to suggest what/where the draft change would be?

Reviewer 2: something like this https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1289/files#r1761806719

// If you prefer to use Maven, add either the `hazelcast-java-client` dependency to your `pom.xml`, or the `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client` dependency (if you have an {enterprise-product-name} license).

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.hazelcast</groupId>
    <artifactId>hazelcast-java-client</artifactId>
    <version>{full-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

> To migrate from the {java-client} to the {java-client-new}, you only have to update the dependency as described above.

Reviewer 2: In general, this is true, but do we want to mention possible problems that can happen ? For example, missing APIs due to missing features or missing APIs due to throwing UnsupportedOperationException (and removed therefore) will cause compile problems.

Also, the declerative config and system properties will not work.

Author: They're all covered right below in https://deploy-preview-1289--hardcore-allen-f5257d.netlify.app/hazelcast/5.5/clients/java#java-client-standalone-beta section

> To migrate from the {java-client} to the {java-client-new}, you only have to update the dependency as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate an application using the {java-client} to the {java-client-new}, you only have to update the dependency as described above.
```

> To migrate from the {java-client} to the {java-client-new}, you only have to update the dependency as described above.

Reviewer: We can have this migration information emphasized, either an info box or bold letters. Or we can have a subsection.

Author: I can add an H4 so we get heading and link too

</dependency>
----

--
====

You can find {java-client} code samples in the https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/clients[Hazelcast Code Samples repository].

TIP: For a tutorial on getting started with Java in an embedded topology, see xref:getting-started:get-started-java.adoc[].

=== Get started with {java-client-new} (BETA)

To get started using the {java-client-new}, you need to include the `hazelcast-java-client-{page-latest-supported-java-client-new}.jar` dependency in your classpath. You can then start using this client as if
you are using the Hazelcast API. 

If you prefer to use Maven, add the `hazelcast-java-client` dependency to your `pom.xml`:

// check conversation about `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client` dependency and note i.e. is it as below?
// If you prefer to use Maven, add either the `hazelcast-java-client` dependency to your `pom.xml`, or the `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client` dependency (if you have an {enterprise-product-name} license).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using `hazelcast-enterprise-java-client`, you also need to add this your pom.xml file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<repositories>
    <repository>
        <id>private-repository</id>
        <name>Hazelcast Private Repository</name>
        <url>https://repository.hazelcast.com/release/</url>
        <releases>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
        </releases>
        <snapshots>
            <enabled>false</enabled>
        </snapshots>
    </repository>
</repositories>
----
```

Author: Added, thanks

clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().addAddress("10.90.0.1", "10.90.0.2:5702");
----

> For further information, see <<configure-java-client, Configure the client} >>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further information, see <<configure-java-client, Configure the client >>.
```

> After completing the client configuration, you must initialize the `HazelcastInstance` that you want to connect to the cluster as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing the client configuration, you must create an `HazelcastClient` instance which will initialize and connect tot he client based on the provided configuration:
```

```java
HazelcastInstance client = HazelcastClient.newHazelcastClient(clientConfig);
```

> You can create a map and populate it with some data as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a distributed map and populate it with some data as follows:
```

clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().addAddress("10.90.0.1", "10.90.0.2:5702");
----

> For further information on client configuration, see <<configure-java-client, Configure the client}>>.

Author: ```suggestion
For further information on client configuration, see <<configure-java-client, Configure the client>>.
```

The logic is the same for both member and client side, so see the specific sections for more information on usage.

* xref:data-structures:replicated-map.adoc[Replicated Map]
* xref:data-structures:list.adoc[List]
* xref:data-structures:set.adoc[Set]
* xref:data-structures:iatomiclong.adoc[IAtomicLong]
* xref:data-structures:iatomicreference.adoc[IAtomicReference]
* xref:data-structures:icountdownlatch.adoc[ICountDownLatch]
* xref:data-structures:isemaphore.adoc[ISemaphore]
* xref:data-structures:flake-id-generator.adoc[FlakeIdGenerator]
* xref:data-structures:fencedlock.adoc[Lock]
* xref:data-structures:cpmap.adoc[CPMap]

== Configure the client
=== Client cluster routing modes
// decide placement
The cluster routing mode specifies how the client connects to the cluster. It can currently be used only with Java and .NET clients.
// check standalone?

// NOTE: This section is only applicable to the {java-client}.
// NOTE: The {java-client-new} only supports smart routing in `Unisocket mode`. You need to disable Smart routing for clients which
// want to use temporary permissions defined in a member. 

> // For more info, see xref:security:native-client-security.adoc#handling-permissions-when-a-new-member-joins[Handling permissions].

Reviewer 2: as far as the Java Standalone client has routing modes, maybe it's because this documentation is for 5.5.0-beta version?

Author: Yeah, I saw the conversation here https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1240#discussion_r1741811784 so put this in ready to be uncommented once confirmed:

@alexey-agapov-hazelcast please confirm

Reviewer 3: @oliverhowell the Java Standalone client does support all three routing modes in the current version

Author: I'll uncomment the section but see Serkan's question about unisocket mode.

Author: This text is out now anyway so resolving

mapCustomers.put("3", new Customer("Avi", "Noyan"));
----

For further information about using maps, see xref:data-structures:map.adoc[].

Lastly, after setting up your client, you can shut it down as follows:

```java
client.shutdown();
```

This command releases all used resources and closes all connections to the cluster.

== Distributed data structures

=== Supported data structures

Hazelcast offers distributed implementations of many common data structures, most of which are supported by the {java-client}.

> IMPORTANT: Currently, the {java-client-new} only supports the Map distributed data structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Currently, the {java-client-new} only supports the IMap distributed data structure.
```

=== Configure client cluster name

Clients should provide a cluster name in order to connect to the cluster.
You can configure it using `ClientConfig`, as the following example shows:

```
clientConfig.setClusterName("dev");
```

[[client-security-configuration]]
=== Configure client security

In cases where the security established with `Config` is not enough, and
you want your clients connecting securely to the cluster, you can use `ClientSecurityConfig`.
This configuration has a `credentials` parameter to set the IP address and UID.
Fore more information, see https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/{full-version}/javadoc/com/hazelcast/client/config/ClientSecurityConfig.html[ClientSecurityConfig API documentation].
// needs {java-client-new} Javadoc link too

[[classloader]]
=== Configure ClassLoader

NOTE: This section is only applicable to the {java-client}.

You can configure a custom `classLoader`.
It is used by the serialization service and loads any class specified in the configuration, including event listeners or ProxyFactories.

[[configuring-direct-to-leader-routing]]

> === Configuring CP direct-to-leader operation routing for vlients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configuring CP direct-to-leader operation routing for clients
```

the cluster members, it can be helpful in some use cases to configure a near cache on the client side. For a detailed explanation of this feature and its configuration, see xref:performance:near-cache.adoc[Near cache].

=== Configure client cluster name

Clients should provide a cluster name in order to connect to the cluster.
You can configure it using `ClientConfig`, as the following example shows:

```
clientConfig.setClusterName("dev");
```

[[client-security-configuration]]
=== Configure client security

In cases where the security established with `Config` is not enough, and
you want your clients connecting securely to the cluster, you can use `ClientSecurityConfig`.
This configuration has a `credentials` parameter to set the IP address and UID.
Fore more information, see https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/{full-version}/javadoc/com/hazelcast/client/config/ClientSecurityConfig.html[ClientSecurityConfig API documentation].
// needs {java-client-new} Javadoc link too

[[classloader]]
=== Configure ClassLoader

> NOTE: This section is only applicable to the {java-client}.

Reviewer 3: ClassLoader is supported in {java-client-new}

// check standalone

You can configure a custom `classLoader`.
It is used by the serialization service and loads any class specified in the configuration, including event listeners or ProxyFactories.

[[configuring-direct-to-leader-routing]]
=== Configure CP direct-to-leader operation routing for clients

> NOTE: This section is only applicable to the {java-client}.

Reviewer 3: Distributed Executor Service is supported in {java-client-new}

----
hazelcast-client:
  network:
    cluster-members:
      - 127.0.0.1
      - 127.0.0.2
    outbound-ports:
      - 34600
      - 34700-34710
    cluster-routing:
     mode: ALL_MEMBERS
    redo-operation: true
    connection-timeout: 60000
    socket-options:
      ...
    socket-interceptor:
      ...
    ssl:
      enabled: false
      ...
    aws:
      enabled: true
      connection-timeout-seconds: 11
      ...
    gcp:
      enabled: false
      ...
    azure:
      enabled: false
      ...
    kubernetes:
      enabled: false
      ...
    eureka:
      enabled: false
      ...
    icmp-ping:
      enabled: false
      ...
    hazelcast-cloud:
      enabled: false
      discovery-token: EXAMPLE_TOKEN
    discovery-strategies:
      node-filter:
        class: DummyFilterClass
      discovery-strategies:
        - class: DummyDiscoveryStrategy1
          enabled: true
          properties:
            key-string: foo
            key-int: 123
            key-boolean: true
----
====

==== Programmatic configuration

The following example programmatic `network` configuration includes all the parent configuration attributes:

> // is attributes the right term here?

Reviewer 2: sorry, I didnt get what this sentence means by "parent configuration".

Reviewer 2: I got it, thanks. For programmatic configuration, I would not use "attribute". Maybe we should use all the main setter methods? I'm not sure.

Author: I like the second suggestion, thanks - will update

* `hazelcast.client.operation.backup.timeout.millis`: if an operation has sync
backups, this property specifies how long (in milliseconds) the invocation waits
for acks from the backup replicas. If acks are not received from some
of the backups, there will not be any rollback on the other successful replicas.
The default value is `5000` milliseconds.
* `hazelcast.client.operation.fail.on.indeterminate.state`: when `true`,
if an operation has sync backups and acks are not received from backup replicas
in time, or the member which owns the primary replica of the target partition leaves
the cluster, then the invocation fails. However, even if the invocation fails,
there will not be any rollback on other successful replicas. The default value is `false`.

=== Configure address list

The address List is the initial list of cluster addresses to which the client will connect.
The client uses this list to find an alive member. Although it may be enough to give
only one address of a member in the cluster (since all members communicate with each other),
we recommended that you add the addresses for all the members.

==== Declarative configuration

> NOTE: This section is only applicable to the {java-client}.

Reviewer 3: Declarative configuration is supported in {java-client-new}

[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast-client:
  network:
    connection-timeout: 5000
----
====

The following code shows a programmatic example configuration:

[source,java]
----
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setConnectionTimeout(5000);
----

The default value is *5000* milliseconds.

=== Set a socket interceptor

[blue]*Hazelcast {enterprise-product-name}*

Any class implementing `com.hazelcast.nio.SocketInterceptor` is a socket interceptor.
The following code sample shows an example of how to set a socket interceptor:

[source,java]
----
public interface SocketInterceptor {
    void init(Properties properties);
    void onConnect(Socket connectedSocket) throws IOException;
}
----

The first step initializes the `SocketInterceptor` using the defined properties.

> The second step informs when the socket is connected using the `onConnect` method.

Reviewer 2: Why do we use the word "step" here? Are we talking about some internal Hazelcast member process steps?  Or are we trying to talk about the interface methods? If it's about methods, we should call them methods, and  describe as 

"the first method is called when the SocketInterceptor is being initailized" 
"the second method is called when a socket is connected"

Author: I agree this could be improved - its referring to void init and void onConnect right?

```suggestion
The first method initializes the `SocketInterceptor` using the defined properties.
The second method informs when the socket is connected using the `onConnect` method.
```

Reviewer 2: yes I think so, the change looks fine to me .

[source,java]
----
SocketInterceptorConfig socketInterceptorConfig = clientConfig
               .getNetworkConfig().getSocketInterceptorConfig();

MyClientSocketInterceptor myClientSocketInterceptor = new MyClientSocketInterceptor();

socketInterceptorConfig.setEnabled(true);
socketInterceptorConfig.setImplementation(myClientSocketInterceptor);
----

> // need comment for above?

Reviewer 2: we can say, 

"above is an example how to create a SocketInterceptor and add it to client configuration"

Author: Thanks, have added it before the code sample (best practice)

The default value is `32`.

[source,java]
----
SocketOptions socketOptions = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().getSocketOptions();
socketOptions.setBufferSize(32)
             .setKeepAlive(true)
             .setTcpNoDelay(true)
             .setReuseAddress(true)
             .setLingerSeconds(3);
----

=== Enable client TLS/SSL

[blue]*Hazelcast {enterprise-product-name}*

You can use TLS/SSL to secure the connection between the client and the members.
If you want TLS/SSL enabled for the client-cluster connection, you should set `SSLConfig`.
Once set, the connection (socket) is established out of an TLS/SSL factory defined either by
a factory class name or factory implementation. Fore more information, see xref:security:tls-ssl.adoc[TLS/SSL].

As explained in the TLS/SSL section, Hazelcast members use keyStores to
identify themselves (to other members) and Hazelcast clients use trustStores to
define which members they can trust. The clients also have their own keyStores, and
members have their own trustStores, so that members can
know which clients they can trust. For more information, see xref:security:tls-ssl.adoc#mutual-authentication[Mutual authentication].

> // check standalone - is config different or is the content pulled from above linked page?

Reviewer 2: the ssl/tls config should be the same 🤔

Author: I highlighted this one as it looks like @sergey-serdyukov PR has the changes compared to our original page - please confirm!

Reviewer 3: Confirmed. ssl/tls settings are identical in both clients

Author: I think the issue is that in the original PR the Cloud section is removed but the TLS code samples from this section have been kept and moved under TLS section: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1240/files#r1761451399

Maybe the code sample works for both cases, will need some guidance here but I could link from here to the programmatic sample for the standalone client?

Author: Implemented above suggestion - reopen comment if you have alt suggestion

//ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
//clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setSSLConfig(sslConfig);
//```
//Please note that the paths in the properties here are *absolute paths* to the resources in classpath.

//To enable mutual authentication on the client, add to the properties:
//```java
//properties.setProperty("keyFile", "/path/client.pem");
//properties.setProperty("keyCertChainFile", "/path/client.crt");
//```
//To use the OpenSSL engine instead of the Basic SSL context,
//replace the SSL context factory class name and implementation as follows:
//```java
//sslConfig.setFactoryClassName(OpenSSLEngineFactory.class.getName())
//        .setFactoryImplementation(new OpenSSLEngineFactory());
//```

=== Configure Hazelcast {hazelcast-cloud}

> // check standalone

Reviewer 2: I don't think cloud is implemented

Author: Thanks for confirming - standard disclaimer added

    </client-labels>
    ....
</hazelcast-client>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast-client:
  instance-name: barClient
  client-labels:
    - user
    - bar
----
====

The following programmatic example shows how to define client using the `client-labels`
configuration element:

[source,java]
----
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.setInstanceName("ExampleClientName");
clientConfig.addLabel("user");
clientConfig.addLabel("bar");

HazelcastClient.newHazelcastClient(clientConfig);
----

For an working code sample using client labels, see the https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/clients/client-labels[Client labels code sample].

== Query with SQL
To query a map using SQL:

[source,java]
----
String query =
        "SELECT * FROM customers csv_likes";
try (SqlResult result = client.getSql().execute(query)) {
    for (SqlRow row : result) {
        System.out.println("" + row.getObject(0));
    }
}
----

For details about querying with SQL, see xref:query:sql-overview.adoc[].

// == Advanced configuration
// change level

== Client system properties

NOTE: This section is only applicable to the {java-client}.

> There are some advanced client configuration properties that help you tune the {java-client}. 

Reviewer 3: The following properties are supported by {java-client-new}:

- hazelcast.client.shuffle.member.list
- hazelcast.client.heartbeat.timeout
- hazelcast.client.event.queue.capacity
- hazelcast.client.event.thread.count
- hazelcast.client.heartbeat.interval
- hazelcast.client.invocation.timeout.seconds
- hazelcast.client.invocation.retry.pause.millis
- hazelcast.client.max.concurrent.invocations
- hazelcast.client.invocation.backoff.timeout.millis
- hazelcast.client.io.input.thread.count
- hazelcast.client.io.output.thread.count
- hazelcast.client.io.balancer.interval.seconds
- hazelcast.client.io.write.through
- hazelcast.client.concurrent.window.ms
- hazelcast.client.response.thread.count
- hazelcast.client.response.thread.dynamic
- hazelcast.client.operation.backup.timeout.millis
- hazelcast.client.operation.fail.on.indeterminate.state
- hazelcast.client.statistics.period.seconds
- hazelcast.partitioning.strategy.class
- hazelcast.discovery.enabled
- hazelcast.discovery.public.ip.enabled
- hazelcast.client.connectivity.logging.delay.seconds
- hazelcast.metrics.enabled
- hazelcast.client.metrics.debug.enabled
- hazelcast.client.metrics.jmx.enabled
- hazelcast.client.metrics.collection.frequency

Author: Will add disclaimers for properties not supported

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should also change the text in the beginning of the section saying that it's only applicable to the {java-client}

> == Client system properties
> 
> NOTE: This section is only applicable to the {java-client}.
> 
> There are some advanced client configuration properties that help you tune the {java-client}.
